this is Lisa from mobile tech review and
good times here this is the HP Spectre
x-360 we did a video review of that
separately so if you want to know
everything about the machine watch the
video review but this one's focusing on
the pen HP kept it in secret really that
their HP active pen works with this when
do you get the 1080p version that we
have here are the Q HD version so you
can actually have digital pen input and
we're going to look at it now all right
this is not a Smackdown between the HP
Spectre x-360 and the Microsoft Surface
pro 3 but for those of you who are
looking for something that can be a
tablet and do pen input it's worth
considering both of these at the same
time just saying service pro 3 uses
n-trig pen technology a bit more mature
there are things like wind tab drivers
available the HP uses the HP active
stylus as they call it now you can pick
one of these up at Best Buy they're
about 40 bucks or so that's what the box
looks like if you're trying to find an
HP active stylus it says actually loaded
that's what the box looks like anyway
this is set synaptics technology and for
those who've been watching our reviews
and products with synaptics inside
particularly some of the Dell Venue
tablets it's come a long way it's much
improved and even as you saw probably
the Acer R 13 it's a very usable pen now
we're going to try out several art and
note-taking applications so you can see
how it works alright first we're in
OneNote this is the desktop version
rather than the metro version you can
see I've been writing here so we noticed
with synaptics pens before that
sometimes you had to write in cursive
rather than print because it would miss
rapid printing strokes so let's try
printing it's actually working pretty
well and it's not missing parts of
letters or anything like that
now you can see you missed a little bit
over here my handwriting is really
atrocious especially because I'm writing
this at a funny angle right now so we
can record this on video but overall it
works well not that at all so for those
of you who are OneNote types you're
going to be happy with that and let's
take a quick look at the Metro OneNote
application as well if anything this one
is actually keeping up even a little bit
better without losing strokes it's
certainly very usable and you can see
there's even pressure sensitivity here
for a more natural writing experience
when writing lightly it's like that if I
press hard it works like that so
definitely a go for you note-taker type
so let's take a look at some art
programs fresh paint doesn't always have
the best pressure curves they have to
try to support a whole lot of pens with
the windows ink API and sometimes they
just don't get it right okay so here we
are in fresh paint and I have a small
black paintbrush a sign right now and
mmm it takes more pressure than I would
expect it's not the worst but this is
just in fresh paint right here now let's
compare it to a finger stroke see how
much broader the finger stroke is so at
this you really have to press not
terribly her totally hard but you know a
bit more than we expected now it's fine
if you adjust them fresh paint really
doesn't offer a whole lot of
customization and what they're doing
with pen pressure sensitivity was so
there's that and now we're in sketchbook
nearly a sketchbook and we are drawing
our apple with the wrong color right now
pen pressure is pretty good on this now
with this program you can customize the
pen pressure so if it's sensitivity I
have a very light touch so I tend to
prefer it when things are a little bit
less pressure recording this but this is
not bad at all so I can do pretty
natural pretty quick stroke
now if we do the usual circle test to
see pen latency it's fairly good not
quite up there with intrigue and wacom
but that isn't bad at all so if I really
want to sketch quickly yes now I'm going
to draw somebody's face right there big
scratch it's missing a couple of strokes
here and there so for those of you who
are serious artists or professional
artists you're still going to want to go
select the surface pro 3 and n-trig are
with one of the Wacom enabled tablet PCs
either Wacom zone tablet or perhaps
Lenovo ThinkPad but for casual artists
those just starting out this isn't too
bad I have to say so let's look at our
tray jet our range does a very good job
of supporting anything that uses the
modern Windows ink API for drivers
doesn't require wind tab they really
spend a lot of time getting pressure
right for a whole lot of pens so let's
work on drawing our Apple here again
lime green apple hey that's cool and
this is missing some strokes
occasionally still but the pen pressure
very light line heavy line does have
palm rejection but you can see right
there it did pick up my knuckle this has
a pretty good hover distance but once in
a while you're going to make sure that
it sees the pen tip you'll get the
indicator on the screen before you rest
your hand otherwise you might have a
little accident there so at work so
let's test the speed here again for that
uh-huh
occasionally it's missing part of the
circle not perfect yet not terrible
either certainly enough that you could
do a nice sketch with this pretty
promising so now we're going to look at
Photoshop CC this is the online
subscription edition and I was testing
out some masking capabilities here with
this photograph say I just want to do a
lasso selection something photographers
are find much nicer compared to using a
USB input tablet or even your finger for
more precision and it makes masking just
that easy so say I want to well create a
new adjustment layer or something that
I've got that pretty nicely and finally
selected without even trying very hard
so obviously that works pretty well
let's try drawing because the latest
version of Photoshop Photoshop CC does
support Windows ink API you no longer
have to have wind tab drivers now give
older versions of Photoshop you still
got any wind tab drivers which don't
exist for synaptics but here we don't
have to have it so let's switch over to
our paintbrush tool and this is I didn't
even have to change any settings
out-of-the-box light line heavy line
right there this is not bad or Apple yet
again still I see it occasionally
lagging behind on a stroke here in there
it's it's usable it is not as awesome as
Wacom or in trigger becoming it's not
bad on I can do a pretty quick fill-in
to create a shadow under my Apple there
but I go too fast it'll still lose some
strokes so there you have it there is
the HP active stylus as I call it really
I would have called a pen because this
is a digital thing this is like
capacitive actual has components and it
has a quadruple a pin inside you unscrew
the barrel right here and probably once
every six months or so you're going to
replace that teeny little battery in
there but it's certainly just fine for
note-taking it's decent for art's still
not quite up there with the more
established competitors but who knows in
six months the way synaptics has been
moving with this technology it might be
that much better so that's the HP
spectre x360 pen input demonstration
remember to watch our video review of
this convertible Windows 8.1 laptop and
tablet with Intel Broadwell CPUs inside
till HDR q HD screens available lovely
laptop